# Stock price guru
An attempt to predict stock price movement using neural networks.

## Project structure
- **process.py** program that processes the raw .csv data (courtesy of QuantQuote) and makes it ready to be fed into the learning algorithm.
- **train_neural_network.py** program that trains a fully-connected deep neural network to learn from the data, and produce a "buy/sell" signal depending on whether it believes the stock price will rise the following day or not.

## Method
First, the data was processed to include the day's opening price, volume, and a few simple moving average indicators. The structure of the files generated by the `process.py` script is as follows:

_date_, _open_price_, _vol_, _sma5_, _sma10_, _sma20_, _sma50_, _sma100_, _sma200_, _up/down_

Where _smaXX_ is the [simple moving average](http://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/sma.asp) of the stock, and the _up/down_ column indicates whether the stock price went up or down the following day (1 or 0, respectively). The data for each stock spans from 1998 to 2013.

Then, a fully-connected neural network was trained on the data (`train_neural_network.py`) using the Tensorflow library. It consisted of one input layer and two hidden layers, ultimately producing a buy/sell signal. 

## Results
The neural network was able to fit the training data very well (achieving satisfactory results) - however, when regularization was implemented to generalize to the cross validation and test sets, a performance close to random choice was achieved (that is, buying and selling the stock randomly would probably yield the same results). The highest accuracy achieved by the neural network on the cross-validation set was of **54%**.
